---
date: 2018-09-12
authors: [dv]
description: >
    NOC 18.1.a1 is released.
categories:
    - Releases
---
# NOC 18.1.a1 is Released

In accordance to our [Release Policy](../../release-policy/index.md)
we're starting generation of 18.1 releases.

_microservices_ branch has been forked from main tree about 3 years ago
and bring massive architecture changes addressing performance, stability
and scalability issues. Considering amount of changes, we'd recommend
migration to _microservices_ only for advanced users, seeking particular
benefits. All development efforts was focused on _microservices_ and
we must admit we'd reached excellent result. _Microservices'_ offsprings
monitor very large networks and we'd got invaluable experience of dealing
with 300k+ boxes by single cluster.

Due to diverge of code base some features of older NOC have not been
ported, holding large part of users from migration. So we did our best
to close known regression and to streamline migration path.

18.1 generation symbolizes API and codebase stabilization and encourages users
of older releases to upgrade. Its main intention is to offer next
stable release to migrate and to offer alternative to rolling releases
of _microservices_.

We introduce 18.1a1, first alpha on 18.1. _Alpha_ is not related to
performance and stability. We expect the migration from relative
fresh _microservices_ will be smooth and similar to simple
_microservices_ upgrade. Just select 18.1a1 tag in Tower instead
of _microservices_ branch.

For users of NOC 15.05 and 15.05.01 migration path may consider
some manual operations and will be detailed by later documents.
We expect some glitches on the way and ready to debug and fix them.
It is due to migration from elder releases we marked this release
as alpha. We consider to hold _alpha_ stage until 01.10.2018, introducing
several intermediate alpha releases. Then the branch will be finalized
and 18.1 will be marked.

The users of _microservices_ is urged to upgrage if they choose 18.1
for stability. The users of elder releases are asked to join
[Community](../../community-guide/index.md) and ask the DevTeam
to help with migration.