---
date: 2020-08-26
authors: [dv]
description: >
    NOC 20.3 is released.
categories:
    - Releases
---
# NOC 20.3 is Released

In accordance to our [Release Policy](../../release-policy/index.md)
we're proudly present release [20.3](https://code.getnoc.com/noc/noc/tags/20.3).

20.3 release contains of [271](https://code.getnoc.com/noc/noc/merge_requests?scope=all&state=merged&milestone_title=20.3) bugfixes, optimisations and improvements.
Refer to the [Release Notes](https://docs.getnoc.com/master/releases/20_3/)
for details.
<!-- more -->

# Highlights

## Biosegmentation

NOC 20.3 introduces new ad-hoc auto-segmentation algorithm
we'd called *Biosegmentation* for its similarity with famous
"Osmosys" game. Each Managed Object starts with its very own
"floating" segment, or "bubble". Bubbles collide each other
in series of neighboring events, like new links found.
Each collision leads to a "trial", when rivaling segments
have to prove their power and appeal to the policies and to the rules.

The winner of contest may consume all looser's objects and gains
ever more power. During to collision with already established
network segment hierarchy, called "persistent" segment, bubble
can ever join to one of existing segment, or to became persistent
segment by itself.

Biosegmentation can effectively reveal network segment hierarchy
by analyzing existing or newly found links.


## ConfDB Improvements

ConfDB got new syntax support for:

* LAG
* AAA
* DNS

Normalizers have been covered by common testing framework, increasing
overall code quality and developers productivity.


## Stencil Overlays


Network map got capability to denote object's shapes with
additional small glyphs, basing on object, profiles or project settings.
i.e. all objects related to particular project or to particular role
in the network may have additional indication.
