---
date: 2019-05-12
authors: [dv]
description: >
    NOC 19.2 is released.
categories:
    - Releases
---
# NOC 19.2 is Released

In accordance to our [Release Policy](../../release-policy/index.md)
we're proudly present release [19.2](https://code.getnoc.com/noc/noc/tags/19.2).

19.2 release contains of [337](https://code.getnoc.com/noc/noc/merge_requests?scope=all&state=merged&milestone_title=19.2) bugfixes, optimisations and improvements.
<!-- more -->

# Highlights

## ConfDB
`19.2` introduces new configuration processing framework, the ConfDB. 
ConfDB is the crystallisation of our over decade experience of configuration processing.
Set of carefully designed tools, clean API and flexible query language
offer the unified way of configuration parsing, validation, processing and converting. 
Target area covers data extraction (without complex scripts), config validation,
querying and inter-vendor configuration conversions.

We built ConfDB around idea of abstract intermediate config representation,
somewhat similar with programming languages' virtual machines, query
language with Prolog-like logical programming capabilities, and
common pipeline for config parsing.

Key features comparison against existing config processing models:

| Area                   | Old Model                      | ConfDB                                                     |
| ---------------------- | ------------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------- |
| Configuration fetching | Via get_config script          | get_config script, external storage download               |
| Configuration storing  | GridVCS                        | GridVCS with compression                                   |
| Configuration parsing  | pyparsing parsers              | 2-stage, tokenization and normalization                    |
| Parser complexity      | High                           | tokenizers are reused between profiles, normalizers - easy |
| Parser performance     | Low                            | High                                                       |
| Config model           | Plain list of predefined facts | tree-like structure                                        |
| Custom facts           | Almost impossible              | Easy                                                       |
| Query language syntax  | CLIPS                          | Python                                                     |
| Query debugging        | shell                          | Built-in IDE                                               |
| Discovery integration  | None                           | Config-driven discovery checks                             |

19.2 contains ConfDB support for EdgeCore.ES, Eltex.MES, Huawei.VRP,
Juniper.JUNOS, MikroTik.RouterOS and Qtech.QSW2800 profiles.

[Read more ...](https://docs.getnoc.com/master/en/dev/confdb.html)

## Headless Mode
ConfDB allows the headless mode of operations, where "headless" means
no direct access to equipment. Instead, configuration files are
downloaded from external storage via FTP, SFTP or S3 API, stored to GridVCS
and processed via ConfDB. Discovery can extract capabilities, interfaces and vlans
directly from config. IPAM is also integrated with ConfDB, allowing to track vpns, address and prefixes usage.

Headed/Headless mode may be selected on per-device or per-profile basics via appropriate policies.

Headless mode is a valuable tool for due diligences, security audits and forensics.

## Config fetch policy
NOC got additional configuration to select, which configuration
to prefer - startup or running. Config fetch policy may be 
applied on per-profile or per-object level.

## IPAM
IPAM got various improvements, including:
* separate calculation of address and prefix usage
* prefix profile's setting to allow reuse of special addresses (network and broadcast)

## Ethernet services
`IGetInterfaces` got the `ES` address family, allowing to describe
complex vlan tag manipulations, often referred as `Ethernet Services`,
`Q-in-Q` and so on.

## GridVCS improvements
19.2 contains simple Mercurial's mpatch implementation to read
old deltas. So NOC is no longer depends on Mercurial. 

## New profiles
`19.2` brings support for various IP-cams, including video-specific
metrics. Hikvision.DSKV8, Dahua.DH, Axis.VAPIX profiles support
lots of IP-cams out-of-the-box.

In addition, GWD.GFA profile has been added.

## ProfileChecker
Profile checking engine (discovery's `profile` check) has been
refactored to separate class available both for discovery
and for custom scripting.

## DNS Zone expiration checks
`19.2` restores DNS Zone expiration check, regressed long ago in
`microservices` branch.

## API Improvements

### Script http client
Scripts' http client has been reworked and got middleware support,
allowing various wierd authentication schemes. Integration with
web-only managed devices became easier.

### nbi telemetry API
NBI service got a [telemetry API](https://docs.getnoc.com/master/en/api/nbi-telemetry.html)
for metrics pushing from remote agents, making the NOC full-blown
telemetry collection and processing system for custom
[IoT](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internet_of_things) applications.

## Code quality
### PEP8
Code Quality always has been one of the major priorities.
19.2 contains lots of code cleaning, improving overall code quality
and [PEP8](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/) compliance.

### Tests
Testing infrastructure has been improved and we'd reached
100% test suite passing. Tests passing made the requirement
for merge request acceptance.

### Python3 compatibility
Python 2.7 will reach end-of-life at 2020-01-01, so we started complex
porting project. Additional py3 compatibility linter has been added
to the testing `lint` stage. Python3 compatibility became the requirement
for merge request acceptance.

Additional py3   infrastructure for test suite running is ready and
we're working on 100% tests passing.

# Breaking Changes
## IGetConfig
IGetConfig interface got additional `policy` input parameter.
`get_config` scripts should recognize it and behave accordingly.

Possible values:

* `r` - prefer running config
* `s` - prefer startup config

# Migration
Migration from 19.2 release is straightforward. Just deploy 
`19.2` or `stable-19.2` tags from Tower.
