---
date: 2019-01-18
authors: [dv]
description: >
    NOC 19.1 is released.
categories:
    - Releases
---
# NOC 19.1 is Released

In accordance to our [Release Policy](../../release-policy/index.md)
we're proudly present release [19.1](https://code.getnoc.com/noc/noc/tags/19.1).

19.1 release contains of 272 bugfixes, optimisations and improvements.

<!-- more -->
# Highlights
## Usability
### NOC Theme
19.1 introduces genuine NOC theme intended to replace venerable
ExtJS' *gray*. New flat theme is based upon Triton theme using 
NOC-branded colors. NOC theme can be activated via config on per-installation basis.
We expect to make it default several releases later.

### Collection Sharing
[Collections](https://code.getnoc.com/noc/collections) is the viable part
of NOC. We're gracefully appreciate any contributions. In order to make
contribution process easier we'd added *Share* button just into JSON preview.
Enable collections sharing in config and create collections Merge Requests
directly from NOC interface by single click.

## New fm.alarm
Alarm console was thoroughly reworked. Current filters settings
are stored in URL and can be shared with other users. Additional
filters on services and subscribers were also added.

## New runcommands
*Run Commands* interface was simplified. Left panel became hidden
and working area was enlarged.
List of objects can be modified directly from commands panel.
Configurable command logging option was added to [mrt](../../services-reference/mrt.md)
service.

## Alarm acknowledgement
Alarms can be acknowledged by user to show that alarm has been seen
and now under investigation.

## Integration
We continue to move towards better integration with external systems.
Our first priority is clean up and document API to be used
by external systems to communicate with NOC.

### NBI
A new [NBI](../../services-reference/nbi.md) Service has introduced. nbi service
is the host for Northbound Interface API, allowing to access NOC's data
from upper-level system.

[objectmetrics API](../../nbi-api-reference/objectmetrics.md) for
requesting metrics has introduced

### DataStream
[DataStream service](../../services-reference/datastream.md) got a lots of
improvements:

* [alarm datastream](../../datastream-api-reference/alarm.md) for realtime alarm status streaming
* [managedobject datastream](../../datastream-api-reference/managedobject.md) got *asset* part
  containing hardware inventory data

### API Key ACL
[API Key](../../concepts/apikey/index.md) got and additional ACL,
allowing to restrict source addresses for particular keys.

## Threshold Profiles
Threshold processing became more flexible. Instead of four fixed
levels (Low error, low warning, high warning and high error)
an arbitrary amount of levels can be configured via Threshold Profiles.
Arbitrary actions can be set for each threshold violation, including:
* raising of alarm
* sending of notification
* calling handlers

Threshold closing condition can differ from opening one, allowing
[hysteresis](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hysteresis) to suppress
unnecessary flapping.

## Syslog archiving
Starting from 19.1 NOC can be used as long-term syslog archive solution.
ManagedObjectProfile got additional *Syslog Archive Policy* setting.
When enabled, [syslogcollector](../../services-reference/syslogcollector.md)
service mirrors all received syslog messages to long-term analytic
ClickHouse database. ClickHouse supports replication, enforces
transparent compression and has very descent IOPS requirements,
making it ideal for high-load storage.

Collected messages can be queried both through
BI interface and direct SQL queries.

## STP Topology metrics
STP topology changes metrics supported out-of-box. Devices' dashboards
can show topology changes on graphs and further analytics can be applied.
In combination with BI analytics network operators got the valuable
tool to investigate short-term traffic disruption problems in large networks.

## New platform detection policy
Behavior on new platform detection became configurable. Previous
behavior was to automatically create platform, which can lead
to headache in particular cases. Now you have and options
configured from Managed Object Profile:

* *Create* - preserve previous behavior and create new platform automatically (default)
* *Alarm* - raise umbrella alarm and stop discovery

## Firmware Policy
Behavior on firmware policy violation also became configurable. ManagedObjectProfile
allow to configure following options:

* *Ignore* - do nothing (default)
* *Ignore&Stop* - Stop discovery
* *Raise Alarm* - Raise umbrella alarm
* *Raise&Stop* - Raise umbrella alarm and stop discovery

## New Profiles
19.1 contains support for TV optical-to-RF converters widely used
in cable TV networks. 2 profiles has introduced:

* IRE-Polus.Taros
* Vector.Lambda

In addition, an `NSM.TIMOS` profile became available

## Performance, Scalability and optimisations
### Caps Profile
`caps` discovery used to collect all known capabilities for platform.
Sometimes it is not desired behavior. So *Caps profiles* are introduced.
*Caps Profiles* allows to enable or disable particular group of capabilities checking.
Group of capabilities can be explicitly enabled, disabled or enabled
only if required for configured topology discovery.

### High-precision timers
19.1 contains `time.perf_counter` backport to Python 2.7. `perf_counter`
uses CPU counters to measure time intervals. It's about 2x faster
than `time.time` and allows more granularity in time interval measurements
(`time.time` changes only ~64 times per second). This greatly increases
precision of span interval measurements and of ping's RTT metrics. 

### Pymongo connection pool tuning
Our investigations showed that current pymongo's connection
pool implementation has design flaw that leads to *Pool connection poisoning*
problem under the common NOC's workfload: once opened mongo connection
from discovery never been closed, leaving lots of connection after
the spikes of load. We'd implemented own connection pool and
submitted pull request to pymongo project 
([See LIFO connection pool policy](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo-python-driver/pull/380)).

### ClickHouse table cleanup policy
ClickHouse table retention policy may be configured on per-table basis.
partition dropping is automated and may be called manually or
from cron.

### Redis cache backend
Our investigations showed that memcached is prone to randomly
*forget* keys while enough memory is available. This leads to
random discovery job states loss, leading to resetting the state
of measured snmp counters, loosing random metrics and leaving empty gaps
in grafana dashboards. Problem is hard to diagnose and only cure
is to restart memcached process. Problem lies deeply in memcached
internal architecture and unlikely to be fixed.

So we'd introduced support for [redis](https://redis.io/) cache backend.
We'll make decision to make or not to make it default cache backend
after testing period. 

### SO_REUSEPORT & SO_FREEBIND for collectors
[syslogcollector](../../services-reference/syslogcollector.md) and
[trapcollector](../../services-reference/trapcollector.md) services
supports `SO_REUSEPORT` and `SO_FREEBIND` options for listeners.

`SO_REUSEPORT` allows to share single port by several collector'
processes using in-kernel load balancing, greatly improving
collectors' throughoutput.

`SO_FREEBIND` allows to bind to non-existing address, opening support
for floating virtual addresses for collector ([VRRP](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Virtual_Router_Redundancy_Protocol),
[CARP](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Common_Address_Redundancy_Protocol) etc),
adding necessary level of redundancy.

In combination with new `Syslog Archive` and `ClickHouse table cleanup policy`
features NOC can be turned to high-performance syslog archiving solution. 

### GridVCS
GridVCS is NOC's high-performance redundant version control system
used to store device configuration history. 19.1 release introduces
several improvements to GridVCS subsystem.

* built-in compression - though Mongo's Wired Tiger uses transparent
  compression on storage level, explicit compression on GridVCS level
  reduces both disk usage and database server traffic.
  
* Previous releases used mercurial's mdiff to calculate config deltas.
  19.1 uses [BSDIFF4](http://www.daemonology.net/bsdiff/) format by default.
  During our tests BSDIFF4 showed better results in speed and delta size.

* `./noc gridvcs` command got additional `compress` subcommand, allowing
  to apply both compression and BSDIFF4 deltas to already collected data.
  While it can take a time for large storages it can free up significant
  disk space. 

## API improvements
### profile.py
[SA profiles](../../profiles-reference/index.md) used to live in `__init__.py`
file. Our code style advises to keep `__init__.py` empty for various
reason. Some features like profile loading from `custom` will not
work with `__init__.py` anyway.

So starting with 19.1 it is recommended to place profile's code into `profile.py`
file. Loading from `__init__.py` is still supported but it is a good
time to plan migration of custom profiles. 

### OIDRule: High-order scale functions
Metrics `scale` can be defined as high-order functions, i.e.
function returning other functions. It's greatly increase flexibility
of scaling subsystem and allows external configuration of scaling processing.

### IPAM `seen` propagation
Workflow's `seen` signal can be configured to propagate up to the parent prefixes.
Address and Prefix profiles got new `Seen propagation policy` setting
which determines should or should not parent prefix will be notified
of child element seen by discovery.

Common usage pattern is to propagate `seen` to aggregate prefixes
to get notified when aggregate became used.

### Phone workflow
`phone` module got full-blown workflow support. Each phone number and
phone range has own state which can be changed manually or via
external signals.
