# NOC 18.1A1

In accordance to our [NOC Release and Tagging Policy](../release-policy/index.md) we’re starting
generation of [18.1](https://code.getnoc.com/noc/noc/tags/18.1)
releases.

`microservices` branch has been forked from main tree about 3 years ago
and bring massive architecture changes addressing performance, stability
and scalability issues. Considering amount of changes, we’d recommend
migration to `microservices` only for advanced users, seeking particular
benefits. All development efforts was focused on `microservices` and we
must admit we’d reached excellent result. `Microservices` offsprings
monitor very large networks and we’d got invaluable experience of
dealing with 300k+ boxes by single cluster.

Due to diverge of code base some features of older NOC have not been
ported, holding large part of users from migration. So we did our best
to close known regression and to streamline migration path.

18.1 generation symbolizes API and codebase stabilization and encourages
users of older releases to upgrade. Its main intention is to offer next
stable release to migrate and to offer alternative to rolling releases
of `microservices`.

We introduce 18.1a1, first alpha on 18.1. Alpha is not related to
performance and stability. We expect the migration from relative fresh
`microservices` will be smooth and similar to simple `microservices`
upgrade. Just select 18.1a1 tag in Tower instead of `microservices`
branch.

For users of NOC 15.05 and 15.05.01 migration path may consider some
manual operations and will be detailed by later documents. We expect
some glitches on the way and ready to debug and fix them. It is due to
migration from elder releases we marked this release as alpha. We
consider to hold alpha stage until 01.10.2018, introducing several
intermediate alpha releases. Then the branch will be finalized and 18.1
will be marked.

The users of `microservices` is urged to upgrage if they choose 18.1 for
stability. The users of elder releases are asked to join 
[Community](../community-guide/index.md) and ask the
[DevTeam](https://getnoc.com/devteam/) to help with migration.
